Set content for components or slots without a block (#875)
github/view_component: docs/guide/content.md

---
layout: default
title: Content
parent: Building ViewComponents
---

# Content

Content passed to a ViewComponent as a block is captured and assigned to the `content` accessor.

```erb
<%= render(MyComponent.new) do %>
  <!-- This will be accessible via `content` -->
  <div>This is my content</div>
<% end %>
```

> ## `#with_content` (Experimental)

Reviewer: Do we want this feature to be experimental? I'm pretty confident in the API.

```suggestion
## `#with_content`
```

> Content can also be passed to a ViewComponent by calling `#with_content`. This is especially useful to build UI when you don't have a `view_context` available and render it at a later moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content can also be passed to a ViewComponent by calling `#with_content`, which is especially useful when rendering components outside of views (such as in a controller, background job, script, etc):
```

```rb

> component = MyComponent.new.with_content("This is my content")
> ...
> render(component)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class MyController < ApplicationController
  def show
    render(MyComponent.new.with_content("This is my content"))
  end
end
```

```

`#with_content` also accepts passing another component as content:

```rb
component = MyComponent.new.with_content(SomeComponent.new)
...
render(component)
```

> ### Slots

Reviewer: I almost wonder if this document should just be part of the existing docs on passing content / slots documentation. I'd be afraid of folks missing this context when reading the Slots docs page.

`#with_content` is also available for slots:

```rb

> component = MyComponent.new

Reviewer: While it _is_ valid Ruby, I'd prefer we keep our documentation free of assigning component instances to variables ❤️, instead inlining this into the `render` call.

Author: I **want** this to be in a variable to showcase that it will be rendered later, even in a different context
